Corrections and Updates to the Degas
Elite Manual
October 1, 1986

Appendix C revision Notes:

GDOS and ASSIGN.SYS:

     Due to last-minutes changes in
GDOS by Atari Corp., the information on
the ASSIGN.SYS file in Appendix C is
not quite correct. Here are the
corrections and a new sample file:


*    You must put the names of all the
font files you want to load, after the
screen type descriptor (screen.sys
sections 01, 02, 03, 04, shown below)
for that resolution. Screen 01 is a
default mode (unused in Degas Elite),
02 is low resolution, 03 is medium
resolution, 04 is high resolution
(monochrome).  With this setup, you can
set up your ASSIGN.SYS file so that you
have specific fonts assigned to each
resolution.

*    The location of the font files
must be specified by first specifying a
path and folder on the first line.

*    Comments may be included in the
file if prefixed with a semicolon
(";").

     Here is the ASSIGN.SYS file that
comes on your Degas Elite distribution
disk:



path = a:\fonts\     ;Pathname
containing fonts
;
01p screen.sys          ;Default
screen
;
;
02p screen.sys          ;Low-resolution
screen
;
COMPHS08.FNT
COMPSS16.FNT
COMPDS32.FNT
COMPHD08.FNT
COMPSD16.FNT
COMPDD32.FNT
;
03p screen.sys
;Medium-resolution screen
;
COMPHS08.FNT
COMPSS16.FNT
COMPDS32.FNT
COMPHD08.FNT
COMPSD16.FNT
COMPDD32.FNT
;
04p screen.sys
;High-resolution screen
;
COMPHS08.FNT
COMPSS16.FNT
COMPDS32.FNT
COMPHD08.FNT
COMPSD16.FNT
COMPDD32.FNT
;
21 fx80.sys
31 META.SYS
^Z

The Font Conversion Program:

     When you pick the DEGAS font file
to convert, FONTCONV.PRG displays a
dialog where you enter the name of the
font for both the normal width and
double width (extended) fonts. These
are assigned unique font identifier
numbers. You can also enter a
four-character font filename prefix or
let the program use a default.


     For example, the COMPUTER.FNT file
defaults to COMP for the prefix, and
will generate COMPHS08.FNT (Half
height, Single width, 8 points high),
COMPSS16.FNT (Single height & width, 16
points), COMPDS32.FNT (Double height,
Single width, 32 points) as the first
font file group - these are assigned
the first font identifier number. The
extended (double-width) font is
COMPHD08.FNT (Half/Double, 8 points),
COMPSD16.FNT (Single height, Double
width, 16 points) and COMPDD16.FNT
(Double height & width, 32 points). You
can click on the appropriate buttons in
the dialog to output only the font
sizes you want.



















